# Final Project

## Introduction

Poisson regression model is often used to analyze count data. In Poisson distribution, the variance is assumed to equal the mean. However, in practice, this assumption usually can not be satisfied. The situation that variance is greater than mean under Poisson distribution is referred to as overdispersion, and the situation that variance is less than mean under Poisson distribution is referred to as underdispersion, which might be less frequent. If the data is overdispersed, and we failed to take it into account in our regression model, the variability in the data would be greater than the predicted. We would incorrectly under-estimate the variance of parameter, thus result in narrower confidence interval and smaller p-value. Then we could end up with incorrect inference. 

There are several causes of overdispersion, including misspecification or omission of crucial predictors in the model, the omission of random effect in the model, and the addition of either high outliers or excess zeros in the count data. The following report will introduce some popular models that people used to address overdispersion in Poisson distribution, including quasi-Poisson regression mdoel, negativebinomial regression model, Poisson generalized linear mixed model (GLMM), and zero-inflated Poisson GLMM. Then we will apply a simulation study to compare these models when there is random effect in the clustered data, and additionally when there are more zeros than expected in the data. 
